last year there were seven cloud ipos in
total
bessemer was an investor in four of them
[Applause]
our secret sauce is our road mapping
process the firm will have 20 to 30
active road maps
part of our predictions that used to be
internal road maps we now
expose to the world and we're thrilled
to be unveiling
our annual state of the cloud report
we're going to try to talk about
where we've been where we're at and then
where we think we're headed
you essentially now have a playbook to
how to go out and build your
great cloud business you now have a peer
group and a support group not just
through online communities like saster
but through a pure ceo set that is
absolutely world class
you're not alone you don't need to
figure this all out for the first time
as people did 20 years ago
[Music]
the two things that i loved the most
outside is just the general value prop
one it's
the story and the product is personal to
the founder
just understanding where you
differentiate and how you're going to
win
being able to clearly articulate that is
really key we can't wait to see what
you're going to build
keep kicking ass thank you
[Music]
hello sastor peeps it is so good to be
with you
again this year despite the
circumstances and uh elliot and i
are thrilled to live stream to all of
you
thousands around the world in different
places in different time zones
hey everyone thanks for having us back
really looking forward to the discussion
today
and today we're joined by our third
partner and newest partner at bessemer
mary welcome mary hi thanks so much for
having me and
great to be here so we've been working
hard on this
and uh typically we would be launching
this live with thousands of you in the
audience
and uh each year that's something that
frankly we really look forward to the
energy the feedback the interactions in
the halls and over drinks
so we're going to have to ad-lib a
little bit for the obvious circumstances
but one of the benefits of doing it this
way is that we can simultaneously make a
bunch of digital content available
to you and so at the end of the
presentation we'll talk through where
you can download the report get videos
get follow-ups and really build on all
of the content here
but it was just over a year ago that
elliot and i were doing this
which is uh we we did the quick pivot
from trying to be on live stage at
saster
and recording what became then our first
online
um and on demand version of state of the
cloud
little did we know that what we thought
was going to be days or maybe weeks has
turned into months
but we're always evolving and iterating
and that's that's really what uh
the new new normal has become in the
covid world and one of the things that
we we spend a lot of time with
um as venture capitalists is trying to
predict the future
and doing a bunch of scenario planning
so the upside the downside
i guess the wipeout or or the black swan
as many venture capitalists call it
but the one thing that we definitely
didn't predict was a global
pandemic um just as a fun fact we had
done all of our predictions and put
together the slides for last year say
the cloud
before covid took hold um and you know
we just had to adjust on the fly as
byron talked about
but one of the things that we are really
proud of um in terms of predicting the
future was in last year's predictions we
talked about the future of work will be
remote
our partner talia goldberg spends a lot
of time and really spearheads our work
in this
this sector we had highlighted some of
the really interesting companies
you know whether it's miro uh whether it
was zoom for example or
all the collaboration tools we are
really excited about our prediction last
year and of course we're all living in
this new normal where
now we're doing stay the cloud together
over zoom
and before we were able to settle into
any sort of a new normal we wondered if
it would even be possible
just after shelter in place the shelter
in place order took effect the stock
market reflected the uncertainty we were
all feeling
and in march of 2020 we saw the major
indices each drop over 30 percent over
the course of three weeks
as the market experienced its steepest
crash in history
and during this time as venture
capitalists and justice people
we saw the beginning of fundamental and
abrupt changes to the way we all live
and work
so we were all adjusting to uh some
version of this new normal
uh and certainly it changed how we
work live and play um this is a scene
from a park
that uh no one would have possibly
imagined
a year ago as we were doing this um each
year at bessemer we hosted an event in
san francisco
um that is a cloud-focused event and
even that had to evolve this is our
cloud 100
group an example of a session that
normally would have been in person
moved to digital we are fortunate to
still have a great lineup and a
worldwide
attendee group but certainly even
venture firms are having to adjust to
what this means
this is actually a shot of our recent
monday meeting everyone given
you all uh hello from the bessemer
partnership around the world
and indeed our meetings too have now
gone to hybrid
and evolved formats so
as we like to say welcome to the new
normal some versions of this will
persist
and there's a lot of efficiency gains
and even some
um some broader gains that we do think
will
persist and will benefit from the cloud
enablement
uh and the cloud tailwinds that our
industry has been experiencing
and don't get me wrong i'm as eager as
all of you to get back to
my office and to other people's homes
and to meet entrepreneurs in person
but a lot of things that have
accelerated
we think will reflect across you know
long-term tech
trends um and as we go into things today
you'll see a lot of industries this an
example of telehealth
that has skyrocketed given the cloud
and covid combination a 300x
increase in health telehealth visits and
so today we're going to talk about
a lot of these things that have
accelerated and what that means for the
economy and what that means for our
cloud industry
and then mary's going to dive in and
share some insights on the private cloud
marketplaces
and marketplace and companies from her
original analysis
elliot's going to talk about some of the
go to market lessons that you're all
probably wrestling with
and iterating on and and uh discovering
on your own in some ways but we're going
to try to distill those best practices
and share that back out
and then of course like every year we
will share with you
our seven predictions for 2021 for the
cloud industry
but let's dive into some more industries
specifically and obviously healthcare
here
is the ultimate in person industry as
one uh very clear example
this is an example from one of our
portfolio companies hinge health
but also as parents out there let's talk
about education
myself i'm a parent of three all of uh
whom are now
adjusting to some form of hybrid
learning and
perhaps not surprisingly 93 percent
of households are now doing the same um
whether it's
you know the zoom tools or the lms
solutions uh like canvas
or our portfolio company as well like
brightwheel which is enabling preschools
daycare centers and camps
to use technology to help their teachers
and families communicate and connect
while also supporting the back offices
of these businesses
and then next to the front line
healthcare workers perhaps no industry
has been more impacted
or no class of business has been more
impacted than the smb
and small business workers out there
certainly the restaurant industry
front and center as brick and mortar
businesses are under
extreme pressure and yet companies like
toast have really helped them
uh evolve and adapt to the new mobile
ordering and online payments world
the construction industry is another
example of this in some ways
also the ultimate in-person physical
industry
and yet these businesses as well are now
um
moving to collaborate virtually on cloud
technology stacks
uh and be able to um have efficient
you know work product in the field and
uh with global supply chains
uh in this hybrid and uh heavily
online collaborative world and so across
all of our portfolio
um we're seeing this and we suspect all
of you in the audience are seeing
and feeling and adapting to this um but
for the broader industry perhaps who's
not yet convinced
um we'll turn to one of the mountains in
the cloud
uh it's the ceo of microsoft himself
satya nadal and i think he framed it
really well
which is this idea that really the two
years of this acceleration and
transformation
has played out in two months uh that
we're living in warp speed right now
as businesses are are looking for
continuity
and for incremental advantage in edge
and we absolutely
are seeing that across our portfolio and
i think it's reflected in what you see
in the leadership decisions of many of
these businesses as aws
and amazon just did the same as jeff
bezos announced that he was stepping
down a ceo
and sure enough it was the head of their
cloud business that they turned to for
this
um and it's telling that two of the
world's top three
market cap companies on the planet have
both decided to place their cloud
leaders
in charge of their entire business this
is in many ways the ultimate declarative
statement
on the importance of cloud as these
businesses are
literally betting um their companies on
the
the cloud vision and cloud leaders and
this is from the
the technology incumbents who are
evolving to cloud
but the trends are even more acute when
you look at the pure play cloud
companies
um and you can see the the the major
pandemic tailwinds have really permeated
first if we look at the top five public
cloud companies
this is the class from last year and
then if you roll that forward
what you see is is service now um has
been surpassed
and certainly um you know shopify
through this period
has nearly tripled in market cap uh
driven by the rise of e-commerce but
also the digital payments and the qr
code system that they have for
contactless payments
um paypal has continued to skyrocket and
then of course
zoom replacing servicenow in the top
five
as zoom meeting zoom backgrounds and for
all of us even a little zoom fatigue
is becoming a necessary and important
element of of our everyday
and zoom's market cap grew over 4x to
reflect that
and so in aggregate what you see now in
total
is um one trillion dollars
of market cap across these top five
companies
and they on average saw a 70
increase in their market cap over the
last
year since we came to you in saster of
2020.
and so if you compare this to last year
where there wasn't
a single company worth over 200 billion
uh in the entire cloud universe you now
have the top three
all of which who are above that and why
they
maintain a notable lead relative to the
others certainly
um the revenue growth and scale of um
the the other two and the rest of the
industry um
are uh are even more impressive in some
ways
zoom's revenue momentum last year with
the coveted tailwinds
was 367 percent um
which are numbers that our consumer
peers typically
experience uh and while shopify was
uh in the number four slot they grew
almost 100
at massive scale so these are just
some examples of of the pure play
application layer and we're going to
drill more into that in a minute but i
think it's also worth noting the ias
side of this
and a talk about the legacy software
vendors
and their businesses and how those have
evolved to cloud
and so amazon web services continues to
dominate the top
over 30 percent market share in what is
now a 150 billion dollar market
and still growing rapidly however most
notable on this chart is the rise of
azure
and the microsoft uh product and
continued market share gains
at this rate it is quite possible that
azure
competes for aws for the top slot in the
coming years
and we're already seeing signs of that
on the enterprise side specifically
um but let's now return to the pureplay
cloud leaders and combine some of these
threads
so we talked about the top five with
their trillion dollar market cap
but let's talk a little bit about the
evolution of the broader list
so when we presented in 2019 we talked
about the
the possibility of a trillion dollar
milestone which we
promptly passed a year later now
in total with the coveted tailwinds with
the ascendancy of the top five that
alone are now at a trillion
and with the addition of the other 56
companies
so 61 in total comprising the cloud
index today
you have a shocking 2.2 trillion dollars
in market cap for the pure plays
and again this does not include
proportional shares from the amazon
microsoft and google or
or alibaba businesses that are their
cloud businesses
each of those independently are massive
market cap drivers for their businesses
as well
and in some cases like amazon you can
absolutely make the case
that the cloud business is driving the
majority of their market cap
so when we first published the bessemer
index in 2011
um sorry 2013 looking back to 2011
it quickly became this great resource
for our founders uh
and as you can see objectively it's had
a pretty amazing run
we formalized that in a partnership with
nasdaq in 2018
and in total over the last decade the
index is up
over 12x meaning literally if you
invested a thousand dollars in this
index put it in a drawer
and pop back uh present day you'd you'd
have twelve thousand dollars
now for the first several years this was
pretty informal
and we did it uh for just broad
education for our portfolio and for the
industry
and then three years ago we partnered
with nasdaq to professionalize things
meaningfully and that's what became the
bvp nasdaq emerging cloud index
which is the ticker m cloud you can
literally pull it up on your phone and
see it and follow it
to see this basket and then uh
as things evolved as countless founders
and tech enthusiasts
um and investors asked us whether or not
it was investable
we were excited that someone did decide
to turn it into an etf
and wisdomtree launched it under uh
license the data and launched it under
the wcld ticker
over a year ago and since then it has
had similar success
billions of dollars have now been
invested into this etf worldwide
driving tens of millions of dollars of
additional demand for each
public stock in the index uh and as it
priced at 25
a share it has traded up over 100 in the
last year at over 50
a share making this one of the top
performing etfs worldwide
in fact literally uh this was as the
ultimate statement of cloud power this
basket
propelled wcld to be the top performing
etf on nasdaq
across all industries in 2020 and the
number two tech etf
in the entire us within tech and so
uh congrats to the industry congrats to
all of you that are participants in this
wave
um and absolutely this is a sign
of what we believe to be the biggest
single trend within all of tech
and in celebration of these milestones
we've revised the resources and tools
and made a lot more
material available to all of you back in
the cloud community
you can literally just go to our website
bvp.com
cloud and we'll put the link at the end
here but we have the analytics up now so
you can slice and dice and download the
raw data and look at efficiency metrics
and scores
and and really dive into what should be
your benchmarks and targets
for you as a company how to think about
valuations and multiples which we'll
talk more about here in a minute
but the full data sets available for
your use and we welcome and encourage
people to take advantage of uh
of this relaunched and reinvigorated
part of
the bvp nasdaq emerging cloud index the
wcld index
and our website more broadly and of
course
it was a tumultuous start of 2020 and
even over the last several days we've
seen a roller coaster of
of some ups and downs in the industry
but what we absolutely have seen in the
second half of last year and rolling
into this year
um is a push for liquidity options and
uh more and more ipo activity more and
more m a activity
and 2020 um and the last year in total
has had several milestones if we look at
the m a side first
uh snowflake sorry the ipo side first um
snowflake was certainly the most notable
not only for the year but in all of
software history
snowflake became the single largest ipo
um in uh in software history and then
uh as we build it out the m a activity
side
certainly very notable across not only
the strategic side but also
interestingly the addition
of private equity as a buyer in a number
of these cases
that you see on the bottom right but to
quantify snowflakes specifically
uh and to show relative to the others
how significant this milestone was
34 billion at pricing and then they
proceeded to over double
in the opening and so a monster
signal for the cloud industry and a real
sign for
what is happening across the segment
more broadly
and then we did see record-breaking m a
activity
with slack as well 35x
revenue multiple paid for what is a
fantastic business by one of the leaders
of cloud with salesforce
um really showing that uh this was
the second largest enterprise software
acquisition in history after only ibm's
purchase of red hat
but also the largest multiple ever paid
um
and so with all of this cloud activity
with the ipos the m a
um exits and increasingly even
some spac activity and direct listing
activity
uh it's clear that there's a changing of
the guard that what used to be the fang
stocks and people would talk about the
facebook apple
amazon netflix google community um as
the flag bearers for tech
we submit to you that their growth rates
are starting to slow and the trends of
internet mobile are still significant
but not nearly as transformative as they
once were
and that this transition is happening
and the growth drivers are the new cloud
leaders within tech
and so in late 2020 we coined a new
basket of high performing stocks from
within this cloud index
and the industry more broadly that we've
termed mount sas
and this is comprised of microsoft
twilio salesforce
amazon adobe and shopify and as you back
test this data and you can see it just
from
last year but if you go back for four
years
mount sas had an 800 percent return
on investment compared to things 330
percent
and in just over the the last year you
see that it's performed by over 100
percent
and so simply put we think cloud
computing is increasingly consuming
software as well as hardware and
services
and is therefore remains this mega trend
within all of tech
and we do believe frankly the most
compelling macro theme
across global gdp more broadly
and as you roll this forward
um and as you see these transformation
rates we do see
that uh the covet 19 has more than
doubled this transformation um both
horizontally and vertically
and we do believe that within the next
three years cloud will become the
dominant delivery model
for all of software um in this enabled
cloud-first world
so for all of the aspiring entrepreneurs
out there we believe that every
technology company uh created will
likely be a cloud company
in some form or fashion and they will
either be directly in the industry or
benefiting from cloud technologies
and using the power of cloud
technologies so now that we've set the
stage for this macro view
of the public industry i'm going to pass
it over to mary and elliot and let them
dive into some of the insights and
strategies
that we think you as private cloud
founders can and should be using
and then we're going to come back to
predictions in a minute to talk to you
about the future
so take it away team
so um we'd like to dive into the private
cloud market now
um we have seen the exuberance of the
public cloud markets that byron touched
on paralleled in the private markets as
well
as of january 2021 there were over 527
private unicorns with a total cumulative
value of over 1.9 trillion dollars in
drilling down to the cloud companies on
that list we find the majority of them
on the cloud 100
which is the definitive ranking of the
top 100 private cloud companies that
forbes and bessemer put
together every year and these companies
are worth an impressive 267 billion
dollars and include
some companies that bessemer's really
proud to work with such as
procore toast hashicorp and canva byron
touched on some of them earlier in his
introduction but they addressed
really wide-ranging industries from
construction to restaurants to design to
infrastructure
now i believe it was uh 2013 or so
when eileen lee coined the term kind of
startup unicorn
but what's crazy to us is that the
number of private uniforms has actually
doubled
uh in the past two years so we're seeing
more and more companies
particularly cloud companies with
ability to scale
and that has gone even more rapidly in
the new normal
now mary talked about how many uh cloud
unicorns that have
taken place we have to give a very
special shout out to one of our
portfolio companies
porter uh mayor and i were lucky enough
to invest in michael reedlat
and the team uh over there they are the
leader
in online e-commerce authentication
uh and fraud detection so this was not
uh
certainly not part of our investment
thesis or something we thought about
is actually the team over at crunchbase
that reached out to us
and said hey just fun fact order is
actually the 500th
unicorn and as of january as mary talked
about
we've well surpassed that and it seems
like every month or so
we add another a couple of unicorns to
the group
um you know as we we go forward the real
question is
what's driving the growth in these
unicorns it's great to see the numbers
go up
but we've spent a lot of time uh
trudging through the data we have
probably the the largest cloud portfolio
in the venture capital industry
and mary's going to walk you through uh
some of the drivers uh that are leading
the increase in the cloud market
fantastic so you know as a cloud founder
and even as an
investor in cloud we're always asking
ourselves what's driving cloud
valuations
and as a firm we narrowed in on three
main drivers first
the increase in cloud multiples second
the increase in cloud company growth
rates
and third more demand than supply for
cloud assets
and after we discuss each of those in
turn we'd love to introduce the concept
of growth endurance which helps to
explain
this explosion in cloud valuations so
we'll go ahead and get started
so first up is the incredible growth in
cloud multiples
as byron highlighted we architect the
bvp nasdaq emerging cloud index
and it had its average multiple increase
by from about five times forward run
rate revenue in 2010
to over 20 times in 2020 and while we
are looking to investigate private cloud
in this section
we we know that private cloud multiples
do trail that a public cloud so it's
important to level set in
in what those look like historically and
interestingly
in 2020 we've seen the top quartile of
cloud companies break away from the pack
to trade for 30x
as a step function change in how the
public cloud markets are valuing the
strongest cloud companies
including some that bessemer has been
very fortunate to work with historically
such as zoom twilio and shopify
now let's turn to the private markets um
we see
the same enthusiasm for cloud companies
mirrored directly in the private markets
as well
with the average cloud 100 multiple
increasing by over 150 percent in the
last five years
from 9xar in 2016 to 23x in 2020
and the median multiple it has actually
doubled similarly from 7 to 15x
and you know byron touched in his
introduction um on the cloud ipo and m a
success that
um cloud companies have had over as of
late and that accounts for much of why
investors are willing to pay more
more than twice what they did five years
ago for private cloud companies
and for founders one thing we'd love for
you guys to take away
is that building a cloud business today
is as lucrative and
valuable as it's ever been before for
every one dollar of arr
that you generate investors are adding
more than 20 to the value of your
business
but we aren't just seeing more unicorns
because cloud companies are being given
a higher multiple on the same arr
growth rates are increasing as well
which is noteworthy here um the average
cloud 100 growth rate increased from 60
in 2017 to 90 in 2019 given tailwinds
for cloud adoption
and that growth rate dipped somewhat in
2020 to 80
which we attribute mostly to cobit
headwinds first to sales motions
um and we did note earlier that the top
quartile of cloud companies are breaking
away from the pack in the public markets
and it's worth noting that that same
trend is happening in the private
markets as well
um the top quartile companies have
increased their growth rates from 65
in 2017 to over a hundred percent in
and we're able to maintain that growth
rate in 2020 despite a lot of the
headwinds
um that kobe presented but higher
multiples and higher growth rates aren't
the end of the story
um for what is driving uh cloud
valuations you know we are we're
realists and operate in an imperfect
market
um over the past decade there's been a
10x increase in the number of
dollars going into private cloud
companies to over 180 billion in 2020
um which which reflects the growth of
the companies the
the the performance that they've had um
in the exits they've had
but the reality is that the massive
influx of capital has driven cloud
valuations higher
demand has very much outpaced supply
making investors more willing to outbid
one another to partner with the best in
class companies
so taken together um we think that these
three elements of high multiples high
growth rates
and enlarged access to capital make it
the best time in history to be a private
cloud
founder or operator
but as elliot mentioned earlier as
investors we're always trying to see
into the future
and given the fact that public cloud is
trading near all-time highs and private
cloud rounds are pricing it at
almost 25 times arr we ask ourselves if
those valuations are justified
and ask ourselves what the unique
qualities are of cloud companies that
rationalizes these valuations
in perpetuity
so today we're excited to introduce the
concept of growth endurance
which is a metric that we track really
closely at customer and we define that
as the retention of growth that cloud
companies experience from one year to
the next
and it equals current year growth rate
divided by last year's growth rate
so if we look at public examples first
and and we use the bvp nasdaq emerging
cloud index as our basket over the past
decade
we find a consistent trend that cloud
companies are able to retain 80 percent
of their growth rate from the prior year
and and we do note that that 80 percent
rule for public cloud growth endurance
isn't
an absolute um but in public cloud it
actually tends to be relatively narrowly
distributed
in 55 percent of data points um public
cloud companies had growth endurance
between 70 and 100 percent
um in 30 of the time public clouds
actually accelerated their growth rate
year over year
and only 15 of the time did growth
endurance fall below 70 percent
and and i know that this is a lot of
math and this is um
a little bit more of the the meaty data
stuff that bessemer is well known for
um but the takeaway is really that um
you can use an 80
growth endurance rule for public cloud
to predict the the future growth rate of
a public cloud business
and as a as a private cloud company if
you are operating at 80
growth endurance you're really sitting
among the best in class but we'd love to
bring that scatter plot to life
and to give you some real live examples
of public cloud growth endurance
um and we would love to use shopify and
twilio as
some great examples so wall street was
incredibly bullish on shopify when it
debuted in 2015.
um but consensus estimates predicted
that it would flatten growth to 30
percent
in five years and instead shopify's
growth is never
decelerated to that level and in 2020
which we don't see on here because this
is
analyst predictions at time of ipo um in
2020 it actually grew an incredible 80
percent
in the new normal to almost 3 billion of
revenue
and in another example uh twilio was
welcomed into the public markets in 2016
as a superior developer platform
but even with such recognition uh wall
street still grossly underestimated
twilio's growth endurance believing that
the company would decelerate to the
mid-30s by 2018
and instead twilio has grown an average
of over 60
since ipo with more growth runway to
come
um but we'd like to know that there
aren't just two examples we only have
time for two
but there are many and time and time
again cloud companies have defied
gravity and and outperformed even the
wildest growth expectations
and so the the key insight here is that
even without putting a name to it
the 80 growth endurance rule has helped
to propel public cloud valuations as
these
cloud companies are able to retain their
growth um year after year
without as much deceleration as many uh
of us would have thought
but we'd love to turn um into growth
endurance for private cloud
so where is the public cloud landscape
had growth endurance of 80
looking across the past five years of
cloud 100 data our same data set
we find that growth endurance is lower
at 70 percent
and we think that that makes sense given
that only the best companies um tend to
be the ones that make it to the public
markets
um some private companies won't hit that
bar
but you know just as we went through the
distribution for public cloud we we did
it again for private cloud and we find
that the distribution is actually wider
here
so in 40 percent of the cases
um private cloud companies um have
growth endurance between 70 and 100
uh 20 will actually accelerate their
growth and a much higher percent
uh a much higher 40 percent decelerate
their their growth endurance below 70
so to make our work actionable to cloud
founders in true bessemer fashion we
created a good veteran best of growth
endurance
for good we hold companies to the 70
growth endurance rule for private cloud
for best we hold companies to the 80
growth endurance rule for public cloud
and and better sits in between um at 75
percent
but one of the reasons we love this
heuristic is because it ties very nicely
to our our our fame chart of companies
path from
one to a hundred million of arr that i
know the folks here at saster have
seen before um so if you assume that a
cloud company grows uh
300 to 1 million of ar um a good company
would get to 100 million in 12 years a
better company
in seven years and the best company
would get there in six so
um now that we've surfaced a good better
best framework for growth endurance that
founders can use to benchmark their
businesses uh we want to make sure that
we can make it actionable for you here
at saster and
many of the cloud founders and operators
that are in the audience and the most
effective lever that we have identified
and driving high growth endurance is
your go to market strategy
and as many of you will remember from
last year elliott walked through
cloud law number three which is all
about how to master the sales and
marketing learning curve
um but that was before the pandemic and
we realized that a lot has changed since
then
so we i would like to invite elliott to
talk about
the sales and marketing learning curve
and the new normal fantastic so as mary
talked about
we spent a lot of time thinking about
growth endurance over the past year as
all these companies were trying to
adjust to go to market in the new normal
and last year as mary mentioned um you
know as part of say the cloud 2020
i walked everyone through best practices
for mastering the sales and marketing
learning curve
what you really want to take away you
know i'm not going to walk you through
every phase of this but
just follow that golden rule we talked
about last year do not scale anything
until you have measurable proof
that it's working and follow this mantra
you know you just gotta nail it before
you scale it
but here's the thing um you know when we
were doing this last year about this
time
everything changed the traditional sales
and marketing learning curve was really
focused on field sales you know sitting
down
going to your customers offices going to
trade shows maybe that that juicy steak
dinner that you can have to get a new
customer over the line or renew them or
upsell them
and what we've done over the last year
is really sit down look at the companies
that have performed extraordinarily well
throughout covid and the new normal
and we said well what are some of the
project uh go-to-market strategies that
have really really helped
and and really propelled companies to
defy gravity as mary said
when we look at kind of their growth
year over year and then forward growth
endurance
and there's three some of these are new
we're going to drill into them a little
bit from a case study perspective first
we're going to talk about product led
growth strategies
we've seen companies like pagerduty
product board and intercom do that
extraordinarily well
it's really this idea of focusing that
your your product
right on your customer getting in their
shoes thinking about the user
as your go to market motion uh
usage-based
pricing models um again a trend that
we've seen more and more but
you know five years ago where a lot of
the the traditional go to market
motion focused on uh you know a sas
license or
you know annual enterprise sale top down
there's a lot of new ways that people
are
leveraging and used to brace pricing to
drive net dollar retention
and gross retention and then lastly a
really cool thing that we've seen
uh grow rapidly over the last years the
emergence and surge
in cloud marketplaces which help uh b2b
businesses find each other
and transact in the cloud and a special
shout out to tackle io really the leader
in this space
and they were uh just announced a new
big round of series b
yesterday again we try to predict these
things and then sometimes we get lucky
uh and they happen after we we make the
slide so let's talk about product leg
growth a little bit
um again not necessarily a a brand new
idea but
a renewed strategy um in the new normal
you know the way that i like to think
about it is it's really
putting the focus on your customer and
the idea that you've got to make them
successful
your success is not defined that you
know we we went from 50 customers to 100
it's about that one customer making sure
that your product is focused on them
there's less friction in terms of
getting them
time to value in terms of finding these
inflection points where they have their
aha moments
and what's really cool when you think
about uh karen peacock and the team over
at intercom
is when you do it right your customers
grow with you
and you know a lot of sas founders out
there are watching us today
you're thinking about that first batch
uh or that first cohort of your customer
regardless of where they are whether
it's a big enterprise customer
or kind of a smb or sme customer if
you're really talking about growing and
making sure that you grow with your
customers
in intercom's case they did their plg
strategy so well
that when their customers grew and the
company grew with them
their go-to-market motion actually went
up market very naturally
you know it wasn't about uh you know
retooling go to market
just to focus on a top-down sale or a
big new enterprise-wide champion
it happened more naturally we see more
and more of these
um these type of solutions and
strategies playing out in the new normal
where
again you just can't sit down with with
your champion or the person that you're
trying to sell
um from kind of a top-down market
perspective we've just seen a massive
growth
and the value and success of product led
growth companies
whether it's datadog or twilio it's
really again that retooling and focus on
your customer
as your market entry uh strategy and
then you just let the organic growth go
we've got some things online that talk
about kind of best practices for how you
measure that
how you grow that and how you invest in
that further uh
usage-based pricing so you know mary
talked a little bit
about this in the growth endurance
section but uh we'll highlight courier
here
my partner ethan uh he talks in his
developer laws about the holy grail
of pricing models is when it's measured
uh when your customers can measure their
value and
again when you can grow with them so in
courier's
case you know they charge on that the
api call for notifications
this allows your customers to know you
know i'm paying for what i'm getting
value
for and as i accrue more value typically
they're willing to grow
with you and pay you a little bit more
and it really eases
the conversation where you're naturally
going to them whether it's every month
or every quarter or annually
to talk about renewal and upsell
one thing that we we really like to see
when we looked at this data was
net dollar retention when you juxtapose
folks that have a usage based pricing
model
versus those that have more of the
traditional
enterprise license or or traditional sas
sales model
we found that the folks that focus on
the usage-based pricing model have about
a 10 percent higher
public market valuation and what we also
found is that
for the companies that achieve scale so
let's say companies that are 100 million
and north of ar
they actually can maintain their growth
endurance much
easier than those that have the
traditional model and one thing that
we've also seen be very successful is
companies that have the hybrid model so
you've got your annual sas license
you've also got a usage based price
model
that's focused on a metric uh where your
customers and your users are using the
platform
and that's how you drive future growth
and then lastly cloud marketplaces
uh you know can we make these slides
before
we ever present them and share them with
the market and we had used off0 as a
case study this year and
congrats to eugenio and the team on
their big acquisition and partnership
with octa
one of the things that they found is you
know this is your traditional
uh large enterprise sale for a large
part of their market segment
and in the new normal they found a lot
of success
reaching new customers negotiating with
new customers and selling new customers
by doing and transacting with business
and
in the cloud through this channel
marketplace
we looked at a bunch of studies to
figure out you know how how is this
channel growing in the new normal and
over the past year
one of the cool things that we saw uh in
a recent study was that
80 of cloud sales interactions are going
to happen
in some form of a digital channel by
2025. so what does that mean
that means of course the traditional
trade shows matter
that's where you're going to perhaps
meet folks have that drink
after we're all vaccinated and it's a
bit safer but you're still going to
probably transact in some form
of a digital or cloud channel
off zero found that their their size
cycle sales cycle
uh diminished by about 50 in this
channel alone
um and you know if you look forward to
just 2021
we're predicting about a three billion
dollar uh
total transaction volume uh for this go
to market strategy
more broadly if you take a step back and
you said well what's really happening in
the new normal where folks aren't able
to do
these in-person interactions it's just
that the sales funnel is changing
it's no longer this top-down thing where
people enter your sales funnel
they kind of go through your process and
hopefully you convert them or they spit
out at the bottom
we're really advising companies and what
we've seen
in terms of the companies that did
really well they've just created a sales
motion
and a customer pipeline experience it's
a it's a flywheel it's just about how
can we create champions
and use those champions to leverage uh
new business
i'm going to talk about one company uh
you know if we take a step back to last
year
we talked about i think it was
prediction six which was
enterprise automation at scale and just
all the exciting things that were
happening
with data science and automation and one
of the companies that we talked about
uh was hyperscience they are software
defined
input to outcome automation platform for
the enterprise
and it was funny because we ended up
investing in the company
on black thursday which was uh
the day last year when the for the first
time when the market collapsed 2000
points
now the ceo happened to call me that
morning and he said hey is our deal
still good
uh should we still expect the money to
come through and is the valuation or any
of the terms change
um we said no we're still good
and when we invested and kovid really
hit
we we we saw their go to market team
adjust on the fly
so in order to captivate customers they
move to this this model where they let
the customers speak for them
they moved to the their hashtag customer
things customer say
uh strategy and it really drove sales
and a lot of adoption
they changed kind of customer success
onboarding when it came in and time to
value was
uh dramatically reduced almost by 70
days and that also drove growth
in terms of cultivating you know they
just
totally changed their their customer
playbook for onboarding
how they got them on the market and made
them successful
and then lastly uh they expanded their
customer advisory board to make sure
that
they felt part of the company and were
champions for them in the market
last point on this they saw almost 300
year-over-year arr growth
10x growth and platform usage in the new
normal
and 170 net dollar retention which is
huge
uh for any company quite frankly
now look we've talked about a lot of
things uh public market
trends private market trends growth
endurance
some best practices that we saw in the
new normal and now it's time for the
most exciting part of our
our predictions every year so i'm going
to jump right in
prediction one the continued unbundling
of uh
the office suite so you know if you map
against kind of historical
office software particularly microsoft
there's a whole new class of startups
that are taking
things like emails calendaring event
driven
solutions and they're just unbundling it
and they're offering solutions that are
much better than what you can get in a
package deal
prediction two this one is really cool
because you know
every sole proprietor or smb they were
you know hit really hard and uniquely
uh in the pandemic and we're seeing more
and more
uh cloud software platforms that are
focused on the smb
helping them drive and thrive in a new
normal and really bringing them back
online
and then lastly i'll take just one
second to talk about this one because
it's somewhat personal to me
uh i've been really excited uh to see
diversity equity and inclusion software
take the rightful place
um with all the unfortunate events and
conversation of last
year we've seen a huge growth in this
sector particularly on the enterprise
side
i'll give one special shout out to
cyndia which we recently
uh led their last round and they're the
the new
and established leaders in pay equity
just making sure that everyone gets
equal pay
for equal work this is really important
to everyone at bessemer
byron and mary included and i'm going to
pass it to mary for the next prediction
okay prediction number four apologies
data and machine learning infrastructure
accelerates to do heights
as companies make the transition to the
cloud and as more data is generated and
available than ever before
we're seeing the enterprise data stack
evolve as well
and whether it's firebolt and data
warehousing coiled in python based data
analytics
or imply data in real-time analytics the
opportunities are endless
in prediction five which is the rise of
the citizen developer and creator
and in 2019 we did predict that the low
code no code movement were take off
would take off
and fast forward only two short years
and we're fully in the age of
democratization of software development
companies like zapier and webflow are
freeing up engineering resources to
equip their non-technical workers with
developer capabilities
and to get a sense of use case as
possible in this cohort
companies like air kit are
revolutionizing how companies connect
with their customers through their low
code customer engagement platform
uh we're also seeing a similar
proliferation of tools democratizing the
creator economy
and i'll invite byron up to share the
next prediction
great so fintech and crypto is all the
rage in the consumer side but also
relevant on the enterprise side
and you can see the breadth of ways that
it's impacting
the payments landscape across smb and
enterprises
much more details on this on our website
as you dig in there
and then prediction seven is this long
building wave
of vertical sas that we've seen for
years we think absolutely becomes a
tsunami now this year whether it's
well-known companies like toast and
service titan uh leading their
respective industries or up-and-comers
like a shop monkey a squire
um or uh or getting into a bright wheel
example
or gloss genius and health and beauty
we're seeing it more and more as
verticals are turning to software for
their solutions
and so all of these materials are online
we encourage you to look at the further
resources we dive into the takeaways in
more detail
which we've shown you throughout the
sections here
and more and more is happening within
this amazing
cloud market and ecosystem that we're
all a part of
and you'll see some specific takeaways
around things like the go-to-market
strategies that we hope and believe you
can implement in your businesses in
addition to think of
thinking about the metrics um and the
benchmarks that you're all likely
aspiring towards
and then as uh we all like to say this
new normal
means that we are living in a cloud
first world there's a lot of additional
resources feel free to follow us on
twitter the hashtags are there
um our handles are there uh to follow us
and then
uh yes even in our zoom outfits i'm not
gonna scroll down
but but we're all a little more casual
these days as well
and then perhaps most importantly is the
resource
follow-up that's available for all of
you not only the state of the cloud
report which you can see
in terms of the deeper content download
the full report et cetera at the website
um but i'd also highlight a book
giveaway uh jeff lawson our
amazing twilio ceo that we've been able
to work with now for 11 years back to
the seed round
recently published ask your developer
and so share your thoughts and insights
on this report
and we'll send you a copy of this book
if you're one of the first hundred to
to weigh in and then again the new cloud
index materials that are online
where you can slice and dice the data at
your leisure and really go to town on
the industry
that we're all a part of and so with
that i'll say thank you
and in the meantime keep kicking ass
power to all of you and thank you for
continuing
the business and personal continuity
despite these crazy times
[Music]
cheers
you